Hello again my friend.
This is gonna be a quick little video where we change up our animated controller so that we have a way
for our characters to have a death animation.
So let's get started on that.
The first thing I want to point out here is that well if we're currently in our locomotion state let
me click on my play button and click on the player when you click on the character.
One of the characters you can see their current animation state but the little blue line that's going
through when I click on the enemy.
It runs up and then changes into this other animation state.
So you've got a situation here where we've got a couple of states that we're transitioning between if
I to add a third state maybe to cast magic or a fourth state which might be to talk to NPC then we're
going to have all these different states.
But what we want from any particular state from attack or from locomotion or from anywhere else is for
the character to be had a die and transition into that state and is a cool thing that we have in our
animator already in there which is any state so you can see the state in here any state where it's going
to grab that move it down to the side here so it's nice and clear on a own.
But this literally means that we can transition from any state into a new state which is our super big
help.
That means we don't have to make a transition line from one two three four five to seven different states.
We can do it straight from any state into the state we want to transition to.
So hopefully with that little quick explanation that's enough for you to do the challenge in this video
which is to trigger the death animation create a death state in our animated controller we've done that
before so you should know how to do it.
Assign an animation you know how to do that and just so you're not wandering around in the animations
armed photo.
We have the death animation in there that I'll be using in case you're wondering where we get it from.
Create a die trigger.
We've done that before.
Transition to death from any state that should be pretty straightforward.
So jump in and do that now and then I'll go through that when you back.
Okay first of all right click Create state empty.
We will click on that state and rename it to death.
That's the state.
The trigger is going to be die because that's what we want to have to have happen want you to die and
then you go into the state of Death Song and click on the plus add a trigger and this trigger I will
call it die small D.
And then from any state I will write click make transition into death.
Death the animation we want to choose up here.
Let's see motion.
Click on the selector.
Doo doo doo doo doo.
I am looking for armed death one that will click on that and then for the transition we click on the
line going from any state to death.
Now do we need a transition back.
Probably not because you don't really come back to life in our current iteration of the game maybe one
day you can have it come back to life potion but not for now so we don't need to worry about the return
animation sorry the return transition so conditions in here click on the plus and then we will choose
die.
That is the trigger.
Now let's test that by clicking on play.
We have the character should be standing in locomotion so click on die Flip falls over and dies.
Awesome.
And if I click on my enemy and I click the trigger die drop the enemy dies as well.
So that's all for this video just a really quick one showing how we can use any state to transition
into our death state so that we can have our characters die.
Okay I'll see in the next video.